handbook
MIDI

The Pulsar has significant capabilities to be controlled via MIDI.
MIDI controls have:
• Dynamic trigger of all four synthesis modules, taking into account velocity.
• The BASS module recognizes pitch bender (the range is +/- 12 semitones) and portamento
(CC05).
• MIDI controllers can be assigned to SHAPE and WARP synthesis parameters of the BASS
module.
• The Pulsar can receive MIDI clock which can synchronize the array of clock dividers and the
looper\recorder. To do this, turn the INT MIDI switch of the clock section to the MIDI position.
• There are four MIDI to CV converters (MIDI CV block) capable of converting messages from
MIDI controllers and keyboards into CVs. The converter outputs can then be connected to
any Pulsar input contacts, which will provide MIDI control or automation of the functions
connected to these contacts.
The intention was to make the MIDI implementation as user-friendly as possible. Next to
each function that has MIDI automation there is a learn (LRN) button, which makes it easy

to assign a MIDI controller there. To do this, press the LRN button next to the desired func-
tion and turn the midi-controller or press the key on the midi-keyboard that you want to

assign there. The Pulsar will remember the channel number, key or controller number (CC)
and will remember them even when the power is off.
Altogether there are 12 parameters that can be automated via MIDI:
Triggers of the 4 synthesis modules, 4 freely assignable MIDI to CV converters, SHAPE,
WARP, Portamento and Pitchbender functions of the BASS module.
To assign a MIDI controller (a key or a continuous controller) to a synthesis module
(BD, BASS, SD, HHT etc.) hold the LRN button of this module and press the desired
key or turn the controller.

The pitchbender and portamento functions are firmly fixed to the corresponding mi-
di-controllers. The receiving midi-channel number of these functions is the same as

the midi-channel number of the keyboard assigned to BASS. Portamento can only be
adjusted via MIDI.
The synthesis modules and MIDI to CV converter automatically recognize the key and
the continuous controller (CC). In case a MIDI keyboard key is assigned, the velocity
value of the pressed key will be transmitted. If a controller is assigned, the position of
the controller is transmitted.
You can control the synthesis module trigger with a continuous controller instead of
by pressing a key. This will give you many unusual features, such as drawing the attack
and signal decline in a DAW. To do this, use the LRN button of the desired module and
assign a continuous controller to the module you need.

You can assign MIDI keys to a MIDI to CV converter, this will give you the opportuni-
ty to rhythmically control various synthesis parameters (for example, a filter) from a

MIDI keyboard and apply functions such as quantization, which are difficult to use with
a continuous controller.
To clear all learned MIDI functions, simultaneously press the LRN buttons of BD, BASS,
SD and HHT modules (the four buttons at the bottom).

PULSAR•23 USER MANUAL

If any key is assigned to the first channel of the MIDI to CV converter with the same MIDI
channel as the MIDI keyboard assigned to the BASS module, the key tracking signal of the
BASS module will be sent to the output of the first channel of the converter. The CV on this
output will be proportional to the note number that is currently played by the BASS module.
This function is very useful if, for example, you want the cutoff frequency of the filter to
follow the pitch of the note being played. To activate this function, simply simultaneously
press the LRN button of the first channel of the converter and any key on the MIDI bass
keyboard. The first channel of the converter is marked KTR (key tracking).
Please remember that the looper-recorder has a clock up-sampling process that needs
a little time for setting. The first few dozens of milliseconds after MIDI clock start can
be inaccurate. To avoid this, the timespan between stop and start on your DAW or
sequencer that feeds MIDI-clock to Pulsar, has to be at least 5 seconds (then the
up-sampling system stops to wait for the next clock pulse and saves the previous
value that will be used after clock start).
A second option is to use the LRST pin for alignment with the clock divider.
When using MIDI-clock synchronization, we strongly recommend connecting the LRST
pin to 0.25 out of the clock divider to ensure a perfect sync.

Pressing simultaneously the SHAPE and WARP LRN buttons will stop all MIDI trigger-
ing. You can use it as a MIDI panic button if your MIDI system freezes.